CONTAGION CARDS
These cards cannot be played or revealed to the other players
(unless required by a card effect).
The Thing - You are "The Thing" and your goal is to infect or
destroy the Humans. You CANNOT discard or exchange this
card, even if a card effect asks you to.
Infected! - If you draw this card you are not Infected and you can
discard it at your discretion. But remember: if anyone catches
you with this card they will think that you are Infected!
If you are a Human, you can never give it to another player!
If another player passes "Infected!" to you (only The Thing can do
that), you are Infected and you can give other "Infected!" cards
to The Thing (only). But remember that you must always keep
at least one "Infected!" card, and you may NEVER discard or
exchange this card, even if a card effect asks you to.
ACTION CARDS
You can only play these cards during your turn, never as a response
to another card. They must be discarded after use.
Flamethrower - This is the only card that can eliminate an
adjacent player.
8
Analysis - If you play this card on an adjacent player, he must
show you all the cards in his hand.
Axe - You can play this card on yourself or an adjacent player
to remove a "Barred Door" or "Quarantine" card affecting that
player.
Suspicious - Choose one random card from an adjacent player
and look at it, then return it.
Whiskey - Show all your cards to all the players. This card can
only be played on yourself.
Resolute - Draw three STAY AWAY! cards, take one into your
hand and discard the others. Then, play one card or discard one.
You may play another "Resolute" card in the same turn. If there
are PANIC! cards at the top of the deck, you must discard them
without looking at them, until there are three STAY AWAY! cards
to choose from.
Watch Your Back - Reverses the order of play. So, if play was
passing to the left, it now passes to the right. This affects both the
turn order and the exchange of cards.
Change Places! - Physically exchange your place at the table
with a player next to you (unless you are blocked by an obstacle,
such as "Quarantine" or "Barred Door"). Take your hand of cards
with you when you change places. From now on, your place
in turn order changes and you will exchange cards with your
"new" neighbors.
You’d Better Run! - Physically exchange your place at the table
with any player who is not under the effects of "Quarantine",
ignoring any "Barred Door" cards on the table. Take your hand
of cards with you when you change places. From now on, your
place in turn order changes and you will exchange cards with
your "new" neighbors.
Seduction - Exchange one card with any player who is not in
Quarantine, then your turn ends.
DEFENSE CARDS
These cards can only be played in response to an action taken
by another player or a PANIC! Card effect, and are discarded after
use. After playing a Defense Card, you must immediately draw a
replacement from the deck. If there are PANIC! cards on top of the
deck, you must discard them without looking at them, until you
draw one STAY AWAY! card to add to your hand.
Scary - You can only play this card in response to a card
9
exchange offer. Refuse a card exchange requested by any player
or card effect. Look at the refused card, then return it.
I’m Comfortable - You can only play this card in response to
a "Change Places!" or "You’d Better Run!" card. It cancels the
effects of that card.
No Thanks! - You can only play this card in response to a card
exchange offer. Refuse a card exchange requested by any player
or card effect.
Missed! - You can only play this card in response to a card
exchange offer. Refuse a card exchange requested by any
player or card effect. The player next to you (in turn order) must
exchange cards instead of you. If there are "obstacles" in the way
(such as a "Barred Door" or "Quarantine"), no exchange takes
place. The player next to the one who started the exchange takes
the next turn.
No Barbecue! - You can only play this card in response to a
"Flamethrower" card to avoid being eliminated from the game.
OBSTACLE CARDS
These cards let you isolate yourself or another player. They remain
in the game until removed by another card.
Quarantine - You may play this card on yourself or an adjacent
player. For the next three rounds, the player "in Quarantine"
can no longer exchange cards, play STAY AWAY! cards, or be the
target of any STAY AWAY! cards played by other players.
If you are in Quarantine, you still draw a card each turn. If you
draw a STAY AWAY! card, add it to your hand, then discard one
card (you may not play any cards). If you draw a PANIC! card, you
must play it immediately, as normal.
In either case, your turn ends without exchanging cards. Other
players also may not exchange cards with you during their turns.
A "Quarantine" card can be removed and discarded before three
rounds pass by the play of an "Axe" card or the effects of some
PANIC! cards.
Barred Door - You may play this card on the table between
you and an adjacent player. The two of you can no longer take
actions that target each other (playing cards, exchanging cards,
and changing places). It remains face up between you and the
chosen player until it is removed by an "Axe" card or a PANIC!
card effect.
If players change places because of another card effect, the
"Barred Door" remains in its original position on the table (the
players affected by it may change as a result).